Docs on setting up OpenEnclave SGX and Intel QPL in Linux on non-ACC machines (#2966)
openenclave/openenclave: docs/GettingStartedDocs/Contributors/NonAccMachineSGXLinuxGettingStarted.md

# Configure OE SDK SGX on Linux in non ACC Machines

## Disclaimer

> This document is to provide a viable solution to enable openenclave SGX DCAP remote attestation to run on non Azure Confidential Computing(ACC) machines. It relies on several Intel components and services which are subject to Intel's changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document is to provide a viable solution to enable Open Enclave SGX DCAP remote attestation to run on non-Azure Confidential Computing (ACC) machines. It relies on several Intel components and services which are subject to Intel's changes.
```

## 1. Platform requirements
- Ubuntu 18.04-LTS 64-bits (should also work on 16.04 LTS but hasn't been tested).
- SGX1 capable system with Flexible Launch Control support. This feature is only available on Intel Coffee Lake processor (8th gen) or newer.

> - Strongly recommend to update your BIOS to newest version before start. With the setup described by this document, all attestation will be against the most recent collateral. Old BIOS version, which may have lower CPU SVN, will cause attestation to fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Strongly recommend to update your BIOS to newest version before start. With the setup described by this document, all attestation will be against the most recent collateral. Old BIOS versions, which may have lower CPU SVN, will cause attestation to fail.
```

## 2. Set up openenclave environment
### 2.1 Clone Open Enclave SDK repo from GitHub
Use the following command to download the source code.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/openenclave/openenclave.git
```

This creates a source tree under the directory called openenclave.

### 2.2 Install project requirements

First, change directory into the openenclave repository:
```bash
cd openenclave
```

Ansible is required to install the project requirements. If not already installed, you can install it by running:
```bash
sudo scripts/ansible/install-ansible.sh
```

Then run the following command to install the dependency:
```bash
ansible-playbook scripts/ansible/oe-contributors-setup.yml
```

> NOTE: The Ansible playbook commands from above will try and execute tasks with sudo rights. Make sure that the user running the playbooks has sudo rights, and if it uses a sudo password add the following extra parameter --ask-become-pass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The Ansible playbook commands from above will try to execute tasks with sudo rights. Make sure that the user running the playbooks has sudo rights, and if it uses a sudo password add the following extra parameter --ask-become-pass.
```

## 3. Set up Intel DCAP Quote Provider Library (QPL):
### 3.1 Install Intel DCAP Quote Provider by using its Debian package
This [link](https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx-dcap/1.6/linux/distro/ubuntuServer18.04/debian_pkgs/libs/libsgx-dcap-default-qpl/) lists all different version of libsgx-dcap-default-qpl, please download the most recent version that matches your OS version. For Ubuntu 18.04 (code name [Bionic Beaver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BionicBeaver)), please download the version libsgx-dcap-default-qpl_{version}-bionic1_amd64.deb. For Ubuntu 16.04 (code name [Xenial Xerus](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus)), please download the version libsgx-dcap-default-qpl_{version}-xenial1_amd64.deb.

> In this document, we use libsgx-dcap-default-qpl_1.6.100.2-bionic1_amd64.deb as an example, run the command blow to download the package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this document, we use libsgx-dcap-default-qpl_1.6.100.2-bionic1_amd64.deb as an example, run the command below to download the package
```

```bash
cd ~
wget https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx-dcap/1.6/linux/distro/ubuntuServer18.04/debian_pkgs/libs/libsgx-dcap-default-qpl/libsgx-dcap-default-qpl_1.6.100.2-bionic1_amd64.deb
```

Then install the package
```bash
sudo dpkg -i libsgx-dcap-default-qpl_1.6.100.2-bionic1_amd64.deb
```

### 3.2 Create a soft link

> OE expects the file name of the qpl to be libdcap_quoteprov.so. But the intel default qpl creates installed libdcap_quoteprov.so.1 and libdcap_quoteprov.so.1.6.100.2.  libdcap_quoteprov.so.1 is a soft link to libdcap_quoteprov.so.1.6.100.2. To allow OE works properly, we need to create the other soft link called libdcap_quoteprov.s linking to libdcap_quoteprov.so.1.6.100.2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OE expects the file name of the qpl to be libdcap_quoteprov.so. But the Intel default qpl creates installed libdcap_quoteprov.so.1 and libdcap_quoteprov.so.1.6.100.2.  libdcap_quoteprov.so.1 is a soft link to libdcap_quoteprov.so.1.6.100.2. To allow OE works properly, we need to create the other soft link called libdcap_quoteprov.s linking to libdcap_quoteprov.so.1.6.100.2
```

Check where those files are installed.
```bash
dpkg --listfiles libsgx-dcap-default-qpl
```

In most cases, it should be in /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/

Use /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/ as an example.
```bash
cd /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/
sudo ln -s libdcap_quoteprov.so.1.6.100.2 libdcap_quoteprov.so
```

NOTES TO USERS WHO HAVE ALREADY INSTALLED AZURE DCAP CLIENT:

> If you have Azure DCAP client installed before trying these instructions, please make sure Azure one is renamed to something else.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have Azure DCAP client installed before trying these instructions, please make sure the Azure one is renamed to something else.
```

To check if you have it installed, run the following command.
```bash
dpkg --list | grep az-dcap-client
```

> If you don't have Azure DCAP client installed previously, please skip the content below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't have the Azure DCAP client installed previously, please skip the content below.
```

In most cases the Azure version of libdcap_quoteprov.so is located in /usr/lib. Check your path before changing. Here we use /usr/lib as an example.

```bash
sudo mv /usr/lib/libdcap_quoteprov.so /usr/lib/libdcap_quoteprov.so.azure
```

Otherwise the Azure one might still get used because $PATH might have /usr/lib before the path /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu with the Intel version.

### 3.3 Configure the qpl

> Edit the file /etc/sgx_default_qcnl.conf. To accept insecure HTTPS cert, set the option USE_SECURE_CERT to FALSE as we will use a local caching service which doesn't have a secure cert.

Reviewer: Can you say more about this?   This sounds insecure, is there no secure option available?

Author: It is being called "insecure" because the service will only have a self-signed cert. If we want to make it a "secure" cert, we need to go through the process to have our cert registered, approved, and signed by a public CA.  

In our settings, the PCCS service will only sit in the local and only accepts local requests. So there is no security problem. Deploying a PCCS for an organization to serve the people in that org would surely need a CA-signed cert. But this document is to help individual developer set up his or her own development and test environment.  

A CA-signed/self-signed cert might be a better word than "secure/insecure" cert. But that's how exactly Intel PCCS config file describe it. We may keep that wording. But I will add some explanation to the docs.

Reviewer: Does the service run in an enclave or not?   If not, what happens if it is compromised?

Author: The local PCCS service doesn't run in an enclave. Azure PCCS also doesn't run in an enclave. Those services are not a part of the TCB, which means they don't have to be trusted by design. An individual developer doesn't need to trust that local PCCS just like the customers who are using Azure PCCS today don't need to trust Azure PCCS (and any other parts of Azure, except their own enclave).

The cert mentioned in PCCS config is just for a regular TLS handshaking, just like what happened when we browse any HTTPS websites. That cert itself has nothing to do with attestation process. It has no relationship with the certs (e.g., Provisioning Certification Key certs (PCK certs)) that being used in the attestation.

If a local PCCS service is compromised, then the generation of remote attestation report (quote) will fail. So the security of enclave won't be compromised. Imagine a compromised local PCCS, then it can alter any bits in the Provisioning Certification Key certs (PCK certs) then returns the altered PCK certs to the enclaves. Public PCK is included in the PCK certs, which are signed by Intel Intermediate CA and then Intel Root CA in chain. Only enclaves on that specific machine has access to the private PCK which is derived from some information fused in the processor. So the enclave can verify the integrity of the PCK certs returned by PCCS, which means it is impossible to use a forged PCK cert to generate a quote.

Author: Added some notes for that topic in the doc.

```bash
USE_SECURE_CERT=FALSE
```

## 4 Set up local Provisioning Certificate Caching Service (PCCS)
### 4.1 Register an Intel developer account

> and subscribe to get the subscription key. This value will be used during PCCS service bring up.

Reviewer: Looks like the first part of the sentence (before "and subscribe") is missing
```suggestion
```

> If you don't have an Intel account. Go to https://www.intel.com to register one by using the button at the corner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't have an Intel account, go to https://www.intel.com to register one by using the button at the corner.
```

![Intel Account](./images/intel-account.png)

Sign in with your Intel account and then go to
https://api.portal.trustedservices.intel.com/provisioning-certification

You shall see the screen like this:

![Subscribe1](./images/subscribe1.png)

> Click the subscribe button then you shall see page like this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the subscribe button then you shall see a page like this.
```

![Subscribe2](./images/subscribe2.png)

> Then click subscribe button again. You shall see your subscription information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then click the subscribe button again. You shall see your subscription information.
```

![Primary Key](./images/primary-key.png)

Get the value of your primary key, which will be used later.

### 4.2 Install PCCS by using its Debian package
Install nodejs and npm if you haven't

```bash
curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_13.x | sudo -E bash
sudo apt-get install -y nodejs
```

> This [link](https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx-dcap/1.6/linux/distro/ubuntuServer18.04/debian_pkgs/web/sgx-dcap-pccs/) lists all different version of pccs, please download the most recent version that matches your OS version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the [list of different versions of pccs](https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx-dcap/1.6/linux/distro/ubuntuServer18.04/debian_pkgs/web/sgx-dcap-pccs/), please download the most recent version that matches your OS version.
```

> In this document, we use sgx-dcap-pccs_1.6.100.2-bionic1_amd64.deb as an example, run the command blow to download the package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this document, we use sgx-dcap-pccs_1.6.100.2-bionic1_amd64.deb as an example.  Run the command below to download the package
```

```bash
cd ~
wget https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx-dcap/1.6/linux/distro/ubuntuServer18.04/debian_pkgs/web/sgx-dcap-pccs/sgx-dcap-pccs_1.6.100.2-bionic1_amd64.deb
```

Then install the package. You will be asked to finish the configuration during the installation process.
```bash
sudo dpkg -i sgx-dcap-pccs_1.6.100.2-bionic1_amd64.deb
```
![Config](./images/config.png)

Recommended config:
- HTTPS listening port: use default value.
- Set the PCCS service to accept local connections only: use default value.

> - Set your Intel PCS API key: use the primary key of your subscription.

Reviewer: Is PCS above correct or should it say PCCS?

Author: PCS: Provisioning Certification Service
PCCS: Provisioning Certification Caching Service.
The extra C stands for Caching. I will call out the full names at the first appearance of those acronyms in the doc.

Author: Called out the full names accordingly.

- Choose caching fill method: use default value.
- Set PCCS server administrator password: set your password
- Set PCCS server user password: set your password
- Do you want to generate insecure HTTPS key and cert for PCCS service?: Use default value and then in the following questions type in your info.

You can skip the following two items.
- A challenge password []:
- An optional company name []:

Then check the status of your service.
```bash
pm2 status
```
You should be able to see the service is running.
![nodejs](./images/nodejs.png)

> Run the following command to verify if it can actually fetch the root ca crl from Intel PCK service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to verify if it can actually fetch the root CA CRL from the Intel PCK service
```

```bash
curl --noproxy "*" -v -k -G "https://localhost:8081/sgx/certification/v2/rootcacrl"
```

> To learn more about PCCS, please refer to this [link](https://github.com/intel/SGXDataCenterAttestationPrimitives/tree/master/QuoteGeneration/pccs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about PCCS, please refer to the [PCCS GitHub repository](https://github.com/intel/SGXDataCenterAttestationPrimitives/tree/master/QuoteGeneration/pccs).
```

Explanation: "link", "here", etc should be avoided as link names for accessibility reasons, among others, as discussed in the [W3C guidance](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG10-HTML-TECHS/#link-text).

## 5. Build and verify if the OE remote attestation works

### 5.1 Build
To build, first create a build directory ("build" in the example below) and change directory into it.

```bash
cd ~/openenclave/
mkdir build
cd build
```

> Then run cmake to configure the build and generate the Makefiles, and then build by running make or 'ninja' depending:
> 

Reviewer: These lines duplicate 184-185
```suggestion
```

## 2. Set up openenclave environment
### 2.1 Clone Open Enclave SDK repo from GitHub
Use the following command to download the source code.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/openenclave/openenclave.git
```

This creates a source tree under the directory called openenclave.

### 2.2 Install project requirements

First, change directory into the openenclave repository:
```bash
cd openenclave
```

Ansible is required to install the project requirements. If not already installed, you can install it by running:
```bash
sudo scripts/ansible/install-ansible.sh
```

Then run the following command to install the dependency:
```bash
ansible-playbook scripts/ansible/oe-contributors-setup.yml
```
NOTE: The Ansible playbook commands from above will try to execute tasks with sudo rights. Make sure that the user running the playbooks has sudo rights, and if it uses a sudo password add the following extra parameter --ask-become-pass.

## 3. Set up Intel DCAP Quote Provider Library (QPL):
### 3.1 Install Intel DCAP Quote Provider by using its Debian package

> The [libsgx-dcap-default-qpl directory](https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx-dcap/1.6/linux/distro/ubuntuServer18.04/debian_pkgs/libs/libsgx-dcap-default-qpl/) lists all different version of libsgx-dcap-default-qpl, please download the most recent version that matches your OS version. For Ubuntu 18.04 (code name [Bionic Beaver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BionicBeaver)), please download the version libsgx-dcap-default-qpl_{version}-bionic1_amd64.deb. For Ubuntu 16.04 (code name [Xenial Xerus](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus)), please download the version libsgx-dcap-default-qpl_{version}-xenial1_amd64.deb.

Reviewer 2: If you add Intel's apt repo you can install the package from there instead of downloading the deb. Should we recommend that instead?

Author: Thanks for the suggestions. I have added the content on installing qpl by directly using APT as a recommended approach.

In this document, we use libsgx-dcap-default-qpl_1.6.100.2-bionic1_amd64.deb as an example, run the command below to download the package
```bash
cd ~
wget https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx-dcap/1.6/linux/distro/ubuntuServer18.04/debian_pkgs/libs/libsgx-dcap-default-qpl/libsgx-dcap-default-qpl_1.6.100.2-bionic1_amd64.deb
```

Then install the package
```bash
sudo dpkg -i libsgx-dcap-default-qpl_1.6.100.2-bionic1_amd64.deb
```

### 3.2 Create a soft link
OE expects the file name of the qpl to be libdcap_quoteprov.so. But the Intel default qpl creates installed libdcap_quoteprov.so.1 and libdcap_quoteprov.so.1.6.100.2.  libdcap_quoteprov.so.1 is a soft link to libdcap_quoteprov.so.1.6.100.2. To allow OE works properly, we need to create the other soft link called libdcap_quoteprov.s linking to libdcap_quoteprov.so.1.6.100.2

Check where those files are installed.
```bash
dpkg --listfiles libsgx-dcap-default-qpl
```

In most cases, it should be in /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/

Use /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/ as an example.
```bash
cd /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/

> sudo ln -s libdcap_quoteprov.so.1.6.100.2 libdcap_quoteprov.so

Reviewer 2: We should probably request that intel create this file when installing the packge. Not blocking for this PR though.

Author: Thanks! Yes, that's definitely the direction we want to go. But I am not sure if it should be Intel or Azure Security to change the library name to meet the other's standard at this moment. I opened an issue at Intel DCAP's repo to start the conversation for this matter.  https://github.com/intel/SGXDataCenterAttestationPrimitives/issues/104

![Intel Account](./images/intel-account.png)

Sign in with your Intel account and then go to
https://api.portal.trustedservices.intel.com/provisioning-certification

You shall see the screen like this:

![Subscribe1](./images/subscribe1.png)

Click the subscribe button then you shall see a page like this.

![Subscribe2](./images/subscribe2.png)

Then click the subscribe button again. You shall see your subscription information.

![Primary Key](./images/primary-key.png)

Get the value of your primary key, which will be used during PCCS service bring up.

### 4.2 Install PCCS by using its Debian package
Install nodejs and npm if you haven't

```bash
curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_13.x | sudo -E bash
sudo apt-get install -y nodejs
```

From the [list of different versions of pccs](https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx-dcap/1.6/linux/distro/ubuntuServer18.04/debian_pkgs/web/sgx-dcap-pccs/), please download the most recent version that matches your OS version.

In this document, we use sgx-dcap-pccs_1.6.100.2-bionic1_amd64.deb as an example.  Run the command below to download the package
```bash
cd ~

> wget https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx-dcap/1.6/linux/distro/ubuntuServer18.04/debian_pkgs/web/sgx-dcap-pccs/sgx-dcap-pccs_1.6.100.2-bionic1_amd64.deb

Reviewer 2: Same as above. You can install this from intel's apt repo

Author: Thanks for the suggestions. I have added the content on installing pccs by directly using APT as a recommended approach.

```

Update the apt
```bash
sudo apt-get update
```

- Or Install Intel DCAP Quote Provider with dpkg manually

The [libsgx-dcap-default-qpl directory](https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx-dcap/1.6/linux/distro/ubuntuServer18.04/debian_pkgs/libs/libsgx-dcap-default-qpl/) lists all different version of libsgx-dcap-default-qpl, please download the most recent version that matches your OS version. For Ubuntu 18.04 (code name [Bionic Beaver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BionicBeaver)), please download the version libsgx-dcap-default-qpl_{version}-bionic1_amd64.deb. For Ubuntu 16.04 (code name [Xenial Xerus](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus)), please download the version libsgx-dcap-default-qpl_{version}-xenial1_amd64.deb.

In this document, we use libsgx-dcap-default-qpl_1.6.100.2-bionic1_amd64.deb as an example, run the command below to download the package
```bash
cd ~
wget https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/sgx-dcap/1.6/linux/distro/ubuntuServer18.04/debian_pkgs/libs/libsgx-dcap-default-qpl/libsgx-dcap-default-qpl_1.6.100.2-bionic1_amd64.deb
```

Then install the package
```bash
sudo dpkg -i libsgx-dcap-default-qpl_1.6.100.2-bionic1_amd64.deb
```

### 3.2 Create a soft link

> OE expects the file name of the qpl to be libdcap_quoteprov.so. But the Intel default qpl creates installed libdcap_quoteprov.so.1 and libdcap_quoteprov.so.1.6.100.2.  libdcap_quoteprov.so.1 is a soft link to libdcap_quoteprov.so.1.6.100.2. To allow OE works properly, we need to create the other soft link called libdcap_quoteprov.s linking to libdcap_quoteprov.so.1.6.100.2

Reviewer 3: called libdcap_quoteprov.s linking to

typo here.
